Re-using authenticated connection when unauthenticated
======================================================

Project curl Security Advisory, April 22nd 2015 -
[Permalink](https://curl.se/docs/adv_20150422.html)

VULNERABILITY
-------------

libcurl keeps a pool of its last few connections around after use to
fascilitate easy, convenient and completely transparent connection re-use for
applications.

When doing HTTP requests NTLM authenticated, the entire connection becomes
authenticated and not just the specific HTTP request which is otherwise how
HTTP works. This makes NTLM special and a subject for special treatment in the
code. With NTLM, once the connection is authenticated, no further
authentication is necessary until the connection gets closed.

libcurl's connection re-use logic will select an existing connection for
re-use when asked to do a request, and when asked to use NTLM libcurl have to
pick a connection with matching credentials only.

If a connection was first setup and used for a HTTP request with a specific
set of credentials that same connection could later wrongly get re-used in a
subsequent HTTP request that was made to the same host using if that request
would allow NTLM (potentially among other HTTP auth types) - but without
having any credentials set! Since an NTLM connection is already authenticated
due to how it works, the subsequent request could then very well get sent
wrongly as the initial user.

We are not aware of any exploits of this flaw.

INFO
----

This flaw can also affect the curl command line tool if a similar operation
series is made with that.

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned the name
CVE-2015-XXXX to this issue.

AFFECTED VERSIONS
-----------------

- Affected versions: from libcurl 7.XX.0 to and including 7.41.0
- Not affected versions: libcurl >= 7.42.0

libcurl is used by many applications, but not always advertised as such!

THE SOLUTION
------------

libcurl 7.42.0 makes sure that the certificate check status is used in the key
set for the Session ID and thus it cannot re-use IDs between checked and
unchecked TLS connections.

A patch for this problem is available at:

    https://curl.se/CVE-2015-XXXX.patch

RECOMMENDATIONS
---------------

We suggest you take one of the following actions immediately, in order of
preference:

A - Upgrade to curl and libcurl 7.42.0

B - Apply the patch and rebuild libcurl

C - Avoid using NTLM with libcurl

TIME LINE
---------

It was first reported to the curl project on February 24 2015.

As we didn't manage to get a fix in for the 7.41.0 release, we scheduled the
fix and announcement on the already planned following release date.

libcurl 7.42.0 was released on April 22nd 2015, coordinated with the
publication of this advisory.

CREDITS
-------

Reported by Paras Sethia

Thanks a lot!
