sensitive HTTP server headers also sent to proxies
==================================================

Project curl Security Advisory, April 29th 2015 -
[Permalink](https://curl.se/docs/CVE-2015-3153.html)

VULNERABILITY
-------------

libcurl provides applications a way to set custom HTTP headers to be sent to
the server by using `CURLOPT_HTTPHEADER`. A similar option is available for
the curl command-line tool with the '--header' option.

When the connection passes through an HTTP proxy the same set of headers is
sent to the proxy as well by default. While this is by design, it has not
necessarily been clear nor understood by application programmers.

Such tunneling over a proxy is done for example when using the HTTPS protocol
- or when explicitly asked for. In this case, the initial connection to the
proxy is made in clear including any custom headers using the HTTP CONNECT
method.

While libcurl provides the `CURLOPT_HEADEROPT` option to allow applications to
tell libcurl if the headers should be sent to host and the proxy or use
separate lists to the different destinations, it has still defaulted to
sending the same headers to both parties for the sake of compatibility.

If the application sets a custom HTTP header with sensitive content (e.g.,
authentication cookies) without changing the default, the proxy, and anyone
who listens to the traffic between the application and the proxy, might get
access to those values.

Note: this problem doesn't exist when using the `CURLOPT_COOKIE` option (or the
'--cookie' option) or the HTTP auth options, which are always sent only to the
destination server.

INFO
----

This flaw can also affect the curl command line tool if a similar operation
series is made with that.

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned the name
CVE-2015-3153 to this issue.

CWE-201: Information Exposure Through Sent Data

AFFECTED VERSIONS
-----------------

This flaw is relevant for applications that use `CURLOPT_HTTPHEADER` to set
headers with sensitive values and make HTTPS connections to the server via an
HTTP proxy.

- Affected versions: curl 4.0 to and include 7.42.0
- Not affected versions: curl >= 7.42.1

THE SOLUTION
------------

In version 7.37.0, libcurl introduced new options allowing applications to
control which headers are sent to the proxy and which are sent only to the
destination server - `CURLOPT_HEADEROPT & CURLOPT_PROXYHEADER`.

Starting in 7.42.1, the new default for this option will be
`CURLHEADER_SEPARATE`.  This has the minor drawback to the rare applications
that truly intend the headers to be sent to both parties, that they need to
change this option in their application.

curl of version >= 7.37 already sends headers that are set with '--header'
option only to the destination server if --proxy-header is also used.

A patch for this problem that changes the default is available at:

    https://curl.se/CVE-2015-3153.patch

RECOMMENDATIONS
---------------

We suggest you take one of the following actions immediately, in order of
preference:

 A - Upgrade curl and libcurl to version 7.42.1

 B - Apply the patch to your version and rebuild

 C - Set `CURLOPT_HEADEROPT` to `CURLHEADER_SEPARATE`

TIME LINE
---------

It was first reported to the curl project on March 12 2015. We contacted
distros@openwall on April 23.

libcurl 7.42.1 was released on April 29 2015, coordinated with the publication
of this advisory.

CREDITS
-------

Reported by Yehezkel Horowitz and Oren Souroujon.

Thanks a lot!
